source/docs/v3/integrations/orchid.blade.md, before:

---
title: Laravel Orchid integration
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

# Laravel Orchid {#laravel-orchid}

The instruction is written for a newly installed Orchid platform, it is proposed to use the platform as a central application and the tenant app.

## Both in the central app and the tenant app

Laravel Orchid has already been installed according to the [documentation Orchid](https://orchid.software/en/docs/installation/). All the steps have also been completed [Quickstart Tutorial](/docs/v3/quickstart).

- To use Orchid both in the central & tenant parts you need to enable [Universal Routes]({{ $page->link('features/universal-routes') }}).
- Add the tenancy middleware to your `config\platform.php`

    ```php
    'middleware' => [
        'public'  => ['web', 'universal', \Stancl\Tenancy\Middleware\InitializeTenancyByDomain::class],
        'private' => ['web', 'platform', 'universal', \Stancl\Tenancy\Middleware\InitializeTenancyByDomain::class],
    ],
    ```

- Add a route to `routes\platform.php`

    ```php
    Route::screen('/', PlatformScreen::class)
    ->name('platform.index')
    ->breadcrumbs(function (Trail $trail) {
        return $trail->push(__('Home'), route('platform.index'));
    });
    ```

- In the file `app\Providers\RouteServiceProvider.php`, if necessary, change the path to the "home" route for your central application. By default for Orchid it will be `'admin/main'`

    ```php
    public const HOME = 'admin/main';
    ```

- Tenant Routes `routes\tenant.php`

    ```php
    Route::middleware([
        'web',
        'platform',
        InitializeTenancyByDomain::class,
        PreventAccessFromCentralDomains::class,
    ])->prefix(Orchid\Platform\Dashboard::prefix('/'))->group(function () {
        Route::get('/', function () {
            return 'This is your multi-tenant application. The id of the current tenant is ' . tenant('id');
        });
    });
    ```

Commit message:

Improve Orchid integration docs page (#176)
* Improve Orchid integration docs page

Rewrote the docs and removed some bits because they seemed extra (like changing `HOME` or prefixing the tenant routes).

* Fix typo

* Add note about possible error

* Update hyperlink

source/docs/v3/integrations/orchid.blade.md, after:

---
title: Laravel Orchid integration
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

# Laravel Orchid {#laravel-orchid}

First, set up tenancy following the [quickstart guide]({{ $page->link('quickstart') }}), and install [Laravel Orchid](https://orchid.software/en/docs/installation/).

To use Orchid both in the central and the tenant app:

– Copy the user and Orchid migrations to `migrations\tenant`

- Enable [universal routes]({{ $page->link('features/universal-routes') }})

- Add your tenant identification middleware to `config\platform.php` (feel free to use a different identification middleware):

    ```php
    'middleware' => [
        'public'  => ['web', 'universal', InitializeTenancyByDomain::class], // Don't forget to import the middleware
        'private' => ['web', 'platform', 'universal', InitializeTenancyByDomain::class],
    ],
    ```

- Add a route to `routes\platform.php`:

    ```php
    Route::screen('/', PlatformScreen::class)
        ->name('platform.index')
        ->breadcrumbs(function (Trail $trail) {
            return $trail->push(__('Home'), route('platform.index'));
        });
    ```

- Add 'platform' middleware to your tenant routes (`routes\tenant.php`):

    ```php
    Route::middleware([
        'web',
        'platform',
        InitializeTenancyByDomain::class,
        PreventAccessFromCentralDomains::class,
    ]);
    ```

- If listing users in the admin panel throws an exception, change line 55 in the UserListLayout class to `return $user->updated_at?->toDateTimeString()` (add null-safe operator)
