source/docs/v3/features/user-impersonation.blade.md, before:

---
title: User impersonation
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

# User impersonation {#user-impersonation}

This package comes with a feature that lets you impersonate users inside tenant databases. This feature works with **any identification method** and **any auth guard** — even if you use multiple.

## How it works

You generate an impersonation token and store it in the central database, in the `tenant_user_impersonation_tokens` table.

Each record in the table holds the following data:

- The token value (128 character string)
- The tenant's id
- The user's id
- The name of the auth guard
- The URL to redirect to after the impersonation takes place

You visit an impersonation route that you create — though little work is needed on your side, your route will mostly just call a method provided by the feature. This route is a **tenant route**, meaning it's on the tenant domain if you use domain identification, or prefixed with the tenant id if you use path identification.

This route tries to find a record in that table based on the token, and if it's valid, it authenticates you with the stored user id against the auth guard and redirects you to the stored URL.

If the impersonation succeeds, the token is deleted from the database.

All tokens expire after 60 seconds by default, and this TTL can be customized — see the section at the very bottom.

## Enabling the feature

To enable this feature, go to your `config/tenancy.php` file and make sure the following class is in your `features` part of the config:

```jsx
Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation::class,
```

Next, publish the migration for creating the table with impersonation tokens:

```jsx
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=impersonation-migrations
```

And finally, run the migration:

```jsx
php artisan migrate
```

## Usage {#usage}

First, you need to create a tenant route that looks like this:

```jsx
use Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation;

// We're in your tenant routes!

Route::get('/impersonate/{token}', function ($token) {
    return UserImpersonation::makeResponse($token);
});

// Of course use a controller in a production app and not a Closure route.
// Closure routes cannot be cached.
```

Note that the route path or name are completely up to you. The only logic that the package does is generating tokens, verifying tokens, and doing the impersonated user log in.

Then, to use impersonation in your app, generate a token like this:

```jsx
// Let's say we want to be redirected to the dashboard
// after we're logged in as the impersonated user.
$redirectUrl = '/dashboard';

$token = tenancy()->impersonate($tenant, $user->id, $redirectUrl);
```

And redirect the user (or, presumably an "admin") to the route you created.

### Domain identification {#domain-identification}

```jsx
// Note: This is not part of the package, it's up to you to implement
// a concept of "primary domains" if you need them. Or maybe you use
// one domain per tenant. The package lets you do anything you want.
$domain = $tenant->primary_domain;
return redirect("https://$domain/impersonate/{$token->token}");
```

### Path identification {#path-identification}

```jsx
// Make sure you use the correct prefix for your routes.
return redirect("{$tenant->id}/impersonate/{$token->token}");
```

And that's it. The user will be redirected to your impersonation route, logged in as the impersonated user, and finally redirected to your redirect URL.

### Custom auth guards {#custom-auth-guards}

If you're using multiple auth guards, you may want to specify what auth guard the impersonation logic should use.

To do this, simply pass the auth guard name as the fourth argument to the `impersonate()` method. So to expand on our example above:

```jsx
tenancy()->impersonate($tenant, $user->id, $redirectUrl, 'jwt');
```

## Customization {#customization}

You may customize the TTL of impersonation tokens by setting the following static property to the amount of seconds you want to use:

```jsx
Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation::$ttl = 120; // 2 minutes
```

Commit message:

Add notes about guards to the user impersonation page

source/docs/v3/features/user-impersonation.blade.md, after:

---
title: User impersonation
extends: _layouts.documentation
section: content
---

# User impersonation {#user-impersonation}

This package comes with a feature that lets you impersonate users inside tenant databases. This feature works with **any identification method** and **any stateful auth guard** — even if you use multiple.

> Note: If you're currently using a non-stateful auth guard (e.g., Laravel Sanctum's guard), you can still utilize user impersonation by passing a stateful guard to `tenancy()->impersonate()` (e.g., the `'web'` guard).

## How it works

You generate an impersonation token and store it in the central database, in the `tenant_user_impersonation_tokens` table.

Each record in the table holds the following data:

- The token value (128 character string)
- The tenant's id
- The user's id
- The name of the auth guard
- The URL to redirect to after the impersonation takes place

You visit an impersonation route that you create — though little work is needed on your side, your route will mostly just call a method provided by the feature. This route is a **tenant route**, meaning it's on the tenant domain if you use domain identification, or prefixed with the tenant id if you use path identification.

This route tries to find a record in that table based on the token, and if it's valid, it authenticates you with the stored user id against the auth guard and redirects you to the stored URL.

If the impersonation succeeds, the token is deleted from the database.

All tokens expire after 60 seconds by default, and this TTL can be customized — see the section at the very bottom.

## Enabling the feature

To enable this feature, go to your `config/tenancy.php` file and make sure the following class is in your `features` part of the config:

```jsx
Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation::class,
```

Next, publish the migration for creating the table with impersonation tokens:

```jsx
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=impersonation-migrations
```

And finally, run the migration:

```jsx
php artisan migrate
```

## Usage {#usage}

First, you need to create a tenant route that looks like this:

```jsx
use Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation;

// We're in your tenant routes!

Route::get('/impersonate/{token}', function ($token) {
    return UserImpersonation::makeResponse($token);
});

// Of course use a controller in a production app and not a Closure route.
// Closure routes cannot be cached.
```

Note that the route path or name are completely up to you. The only logic that the package does is generating tokens, verifying tokens, and doing the impersonated user log in.

Then, to use impersonation in your app, generate a token like this:

```jsx
// Let's say we want to be redirected to the dashboard
// after we're logged in as the impersonated user.
$redirectUrl = '/dashboard';

$token = tenancy()->impersonate($tenant, $user->id, $redirectUrl);
```

And redirect the user (or, presumably an "admin") to the route you created.

### Domain identification {#domain-identification}

```jsx
// Note: This is not part of the package, it's up to you to implement
// a concept of "primary domains" if you need them. Or maybe you use
// one domain per tenant. The package lets you do anything you want.
$domain = $tenant->primary_domain;
return redirect("https://$domain/impersonate/{$token->token}");
```

### Path identification {#path-identification}

```jsx
// Make sure you use the correct prefix for your routes.
return redirect("{$tenant->id}/impersonate/{$token->token}");
```

And that's it. The user will be redirected to your impersonation route, logged in as the impersonated user, and finally redirected to your redirect URL.

### Custom auth guards {#custom-auth-guards}

> Note: The auth guard used by user impersonation has to be stateful (it has to implement the `Illuminate\Contracts\Auth\StatefulGuard` interface).

If you're using multiple auth guards, you may want to specify what auth guard the impersonation logic should use.

To do this, simply pass the auth guard name as the fourth argument to the `impersonate()` method. So to expand on our example above:

```jsx
tenancy()->impersonate($tenant, $user->id, $redirectUrl, 'jwt');
```

## Customization {#customization}

You may customize the TTL of impersonation tokens by setting the following static property to the amount of seconds you want to use:

```jsx
Stancl\Tenancy\Features\UserImpersonation::$ttl = 120; // 2 minutes
```
